---
layout: post
title:      "The Art of Playing Around With Code: A CLI Project Adventure"
date:       2020-07-13 02:11:27 +0000
permalink:  the_art_of_playing_around_with_code_a_cli_project_adventure
---


After going through the first module course of Flatiron School's online program, I noticed a jump of level when it came to the coding lessons. This was no different at the end of the module when it was time to work on the CLI Data Gem Portfolio Project. Well, we could say that the project was even more of a struggle, to the point where I thought to myself, "Does my intelligence even qualify to actually complete this project?" However, I did not give up. In fact, the struggle was fun in some ways, because I kept on trying and trying different things to see if they would work, and kept learning and learning as I went through the project.

At first, my idea of doing the CLI Project consisted of using several scraper classes to return links of soccer articles in the command line when prompted. My cohort leader told me that this idea is extremely complicated and not needed for the requirements... and I probably should have listened. I spent many many hours working on a project that was guaranteed not to work (at least with my current knowledge and experience of coding). However, I think that was a great learning experience. It helped me learn the true meaning of scraping, which does not have to do with only getting the website URL, but also the data within that website URL.

So, I completely change the outlook of my project with less than 24 hours left to turn in my project, now with the goal of returning the data list of the top 10 ranked soccer players of all time from a website. I deleted several scraper classes and kept only one. I changed the name of my `Article class` and changed it to `BestPlayers` for better understanding. I changed almost everything in the `CLI` class. I learned how to use a `css` selector to get the desired data from the website in my `Scraper` class, but it wasn't printing the way I wanted it to, using extra class values that were not needed. So I had to pass it in as an empty array, and then use `.join.split('extra words that I didn't want')[0..10]` to get rid of the values I didn't want and limit how much of that array I wanted to show, since I didn't want the word "Honorable Mentions" on the list that is to be outputed. Learning how to use `css` selector and incorporate it with an array were the main reasons I could complete this project and have a CLI that worked.

In conclusion, although the CLI project was a rollercoaster ride for me, I enjoyed the experience alot. I feel as though I've learned more about coding than ever because I had no choice but to keep on trying and trying different code and see what works and what does not work. I had to google all over the Internet for information as well, which is a well-known and proper software engineer's experience at all levels of coding. Not only that, but collaboration with colleagues was also a huge part of my learning experience. Software engineering and coding comes with a large community, with many people of different knowledges, and many are willing to help out. I was surprised by how many people went out of their way to help make my code work, which inspired me to have the desire to help others as well with their work. I learned so many things I never thought of with my colleagues. And the feeling of finally getting the CLI to work felt so rewarding and beautiful. It made me take pride and confidence for my work, which are areas I don't think of myself too highly when it comes to coding. It also brought me passion toward my finished product, because I had so much fun just testing out the different prompts and seeing how they work in my CLI, making me think, "wow, I created this". The point of it all is, to keep trying, playing around with code, and never give up or stress too much when progress isn't where you want it to be because you will keep on learning more as you code, and eventually the "aha" moment will come. No matter what you write or do, you are making progress either way. Ask for help when you need it, help others and share your knowledge as well because you learn more and retain more in your memory with collaboration as well. Also, start the project early! That's also a great point to keep in mind too!
